{'_id': '4fbd1b1e96fa7dd2d78bf7f89de074c4', 'title': 'U.S. Records 400,000 Coronavirus Deaths on Eve of Biden Inauguration', 'description': 'Over 400,000 Americans have died of COVID-19 as of Tuesday, one day before Joe Biden’s inauguration as president. The coronavirus pandemic has resulted in the deaths of almost as many Americans who were killed during World War II, when over 405,000 servicemen lost their lives. While those killed in World War II were primarily young men and women, the novel coronavirus has been particularly lethal for older Americans, with those over age 75 particularly susceptible to the disease. Currently, coronavirus surges can be seen in the Southwest in California and Arizona, as well as in Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia. California has reported a local mutation of the coronavirus that appears to be driving infections there. “I’m decently confident that this is a more infectious strain of the virus,” Dr. Eric Vail, director of molecular pathology at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, told the New York Times. President-elect Joe Biden will assume office on Wednesday facing the still-raging pandemic. Biden has called to vaccinate at least 100 million Americans during his first 100 days in office, as administration of coronavirus vaccines has moved more slowly than anticipated. “That is what the president elect has promised. It will be a hefty lift, but we have enough to do that,” Dr. Rochelle Walensky, Biden’s nominee for head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told CBS’s Face the Nation on Sunday. While the Trump administration’s Operation Warp Speed has distributed 31.1 million doses of coronavirus vaccines across the U.S., just 12.3 million people have received their first dose. Dr. Walensky also warned that the U.S. could reach 500,000 deaths from coronavirus by mid-February.', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '69a031113ede422d9a98725e2d61efe2', 'title': 'Virus collides with politics as German election year starts', 'description': "The coronavirus pandemic is colliding with politics as Germany embarks on its vaccination drive and one of the most unpredictable election years in the country's post-World War II history.  After months of relatively harmonious pandemic management, fingers are being pointed as the center-left junior partner in Chancellor Angela Merkel's coalition government takes aim at what it says has been a chaotic start to vaccinating the population.  An electoral marathon in Germany starts in mid-March, when two of six state elections scheduled this year will be held, and culminates on Sept. 26, when voters choose a new national parliament.", 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': 'a3c44258d053e4e57cd8084519ea7846', 'title': "US COVID-19 vaccination program is our 'can do' World War II moment | TheHill", 'description': 'American ingenuity and resourcefulness is starting to produce results, just as it did in World War II after a string of demoralizing defeats in early 1942.', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '3be60ea4b0cdac22061018b768ce0766', 'title': "Australia's coronavirus vaccine rollout has begun, with Scott Morrison among the first to get the jab | SBS News", 'description': 'An 84-year-old World War II survivor was the first person to receive a coronavirus vaccine in Australia, as Prime Minister Scott Morrison heralded a "historic...', 'num_of_covid': 2}
{'_id': '5229610425ede0bea8bd4edfdd67348c', 'title': '100-year-old World War II veteran becomes 1 millionth Florida senior citizen to receive coronavirus vaccine | Fox News', 'description': 'A 100-year-old World War II veteran from Florida became the state\'s\xa0one millionth senior citizen to receive the coroonavirus vaccine Friday on "Fox & Friends."', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '6e2d5919d2a5736d6a0d690d676319d4', 'title': 'Keir Starmer warns ‘mammoth’ coronavirus vaccine efforts will require WWII-like plan | Politics | News | Express.co.uk', 'description': 'CORONAVIRUS vaccination plans will require large-scale efforts not needed since World War II, Keir Starmer has warned.', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '1b8deb858cddb7c07731415ab98e5a36', 'title': 'Op-ed: Covid vaccine development spurred by this WWII-era decision', 'description': 'Development of the vaccines has largely been due to a singular decision made after World War II, writes Walter Isaacson.', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '1f804408311ddc67000ad21c4264535a', 'title': "UK readies for 'V-Day,' its 1st shots in war on coronavirus - ABC News", 'description': "Britain's rollout of the COVID-19 vaccine on Tuesday has been dubbed “V-Day,” recalling the World War II D-Day landings that marked the start of the final push to defeat Nazi Germany", 'num_of_covid': 2}
{'_id': '5a7d16305507f40a2b7a3aa5a362c225', 'title': 'Biden to hold candle-lighting ceremony as U.S. mourns 500,000 COVID-19 dead', 'description': 'The U.S. will officially surpass 500,000 COVID-19 deaths Monday — the number stood at 498,879 on Sunday night, according to Johns Hopkins University. And President Biden will mark the solemn milestone with a moment of silence and a candle-lighting ceremony at the White House at sundown, joined by Vice President Kamala Harris, first lady Jill Biden, and second gentleman Doug Emhoff. Biden will also deliver some remarks, the White House said. Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation\'s top infectious disease expert and Biden\'s chief medical adviser, said Sunday that crossing half a million deaths is "terrible" and "really horrible." "It\'s nothing like we\'ve ever been through in the last 102 years since the 1918 influenza pandemic," he told CNN\'s Dana Bash. "People decades from now are going to be talking about this as a terribly historic milestone in the history of this country." Fauci confirmed that the U.S. will have 600 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines by July, enough "to be able to vaccinate virtually anybody and everybody," he told Fox News Sunday. The number of cases, hospitalizations, and deaths are falling steadily but still high, he added, and it\'s important to maintain public health measures. "As the nation reaches the milestone of a half-million deaths about a year after the first American succumbed to the coronavirus," The Washington Post contextualizes, "the necropolis of COVID has grown into a city of sorrow the size of Atlanta or Sacramento — a death toll larger than the combined American losses in combat from the Civil War, World War I, and World War II, according to the Department of Veterans Affairs." "You see on the news, \'X amount of people died,\' but it\'s so much more than that," said Priscilla Morse, whose 6-year-old daughter, Gigi, died of COVID-19 in August. "Do people see just how destroyed your family and your life is, six months later? Half-a-million families who\'ve had their world torn apart?" Gigis one of at least 271 children who have died from the coronavirus, the Post reports, and "each death represents a shattered family and a trauma deepened, parents say, by the rampant belief that kids can\'t get covid, or that it doesn\'t much harm them when they do." You can read the heart-wrenching stories of Gigi and four other kids — and the families they left behind — at The Washington Post. More stories from theweek.comTed Cruz says his wife is \'pissed\' over leaked Cancun textsDavid Perdue decides against 2022 Senate runDemocrats may drop $15 minimum wage from coronavirus relief because 2 senators oppose it', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '80ac9173e017d618c072ed28092dc0b3', 'title': 'A Ripple Effect of Loss: U.S. COVID Deaths Approach 500,000', 'description': 'CHICAGO — A nation numbed by misery and loss is confronting a number that still has the power to shock: 500,000. Roughly one year since the first known death by the coronavirus in the United States, an unfathomable toll is nearing — the loss of a half-million people. No other country has counted so many deaths in the pandemic. More Americans have perished from COVID-19 than on the battlefields of World War I, World War II and the Vietnam War combined. Sign up for The Morning newsletter from the New York Times The milestone comes at a hopeful moment: New virus cases are down sharply, deaths are slowing, and vaccines are steadily being administered. But there is concern about emerging variants of the virus, and it may be months before the pandemic is contained. Each death has left untold numbers of mourners, a ripple effect of loss that has swept over towns and cities. Each death has left an empty space in communities across America: a bar stool where a regular used to sit, one side of a bed unslept in, a home kitchen without its cook. The living find themselves amid vacant places once occupied by their spouses, parents, neighbors and friends — the nearly 500,000 coronavirus dead. In Chicago, the Rev. Ezra Jones stands at his pulpit on Sundays, letting his eyes wander to the back row. That spot belonged to Moses Jones, his uncle, who liked to drive to church in his green Chevy Malibu, arrive early and chat everybody up before settling in to his seat by the door. He died of the coronavirus in April. “I can still see him there,” said Jones, the pastor. “It never goes away.” There is a street corner in Plano, Texas, that was occupied by Bob Manus, a veteran crossing guard who shepherded children to school for 16 years, until he fell ill in December. In the Twin Cities of Minnesota, LiHong Burdick, 72, another victim of the coronavirus, is missing from the groups she cherished: one for playing bridge, another for mahjong and another for polishing her English. At her empty town house, the holiday decorations are still up. There are cards lined up on the mantel. “You walk in, and it smells like her,” said her son, Keith Bartram. “Seeing the chair she would sit in, the random things around the house, it’s definitely very surreal. I went over there yesterday and had a little bit of a breakdown. It’s hard to be in there when it looks like she should be there, but she’s not.” The Spaces Left Empty The virus has reached every corner of America, devastating dense cities and rural counties alike. By now, about 1 in 670 Americans has died of it. In New York City, more than 28,000 people have died of the virus — or 1 in 295 people. In Los Angeles County, which has lost nearly 20,000 people to COVID-19, about 1 in 500 people has died of the virus. In Lamb County, Texas, where 13,000 people live scattered on a sprawling expanse of 1,000 square miles, 1 in 163 people has died of the virus. Across America, the holes in communities, punctured by sudden death, have remained. In Anaheim, California, Monica Alvarez looks at the kitchen in the house she shared with her parents and thinks of her father, Jose Roberto Alvarez. Jose Alvarez, 67, a maintenance supervisor, worked the overnight shift until he died from the virus in July. Before he got sick, he would come home from his usual workday and prepare an early-morning meal. Monica Alvarez, beginning her workday as an accountant from her computer in the nearby dining room, would chat with him while he scrambled a plate of eggs. “With his passing, we’ve rearranged some rooms in the house,” she said. “I don’t work in the dining room anymore. I’m glad for that. I’m sad, but I’m glad. It’s a reminder, being there.” The physical emptiness is next to Andrea Mulcahy on the couch in her house in Florida, where her husband, Tim, who worked at a cellular telephone company, loved to sit. “We would hold hands, or sometimes I would put my hand on his leg,” Mulcahy said. Her husband, who believed that he contracted the virus from a co-worker, died in July at the age of 52. They used to go on adventures, road trips and cruises in the Caribbean, but Mulcahy is not sure she wants to travel without him. They had dreams of someday moving to a quaint town in Kentucky, on the Cumberland River, and retiring there. She said it was difficult even to stop at the grocery store without her husband, who liked to goof around and entertain her while they shopped. Now she sees a display of Oreos, his favorite cookies, and breaks down in tears. A Staggering Toll One year ago, as the coronavirus took hold in the United States, few public health experts predicted its death toll would climb to such a terrible height. At a White House briefing March 31, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the top infectious disease expert in the country, and Dr. Deborah Birx, who was coordinating the coronavirus response at the time, announced a stunning projection: Even with strict stay-at-home orders, the virus might kill as many as 240,000 Americans. “As sobering a number as that is, we should be prepared for it,” Fauci said at the time. Less than a year later, the virus has killed more than twice that number. The virus has disproportionately caused the deaths of Americans in nursing homes and other long-term care facilities, where infections spread easily among vulnerable residents: They account for more than 163,000 deaths, about one-third of the country’s total. In New Hampshire, 73% of COVID-19 deaths were linked to nursing homes through last week. In Minnesota, it was 62%. The coronavirus has been especially lethal to Americans 65 and older, who account for about 81% of the country’s COVID-19 deaths. One of them was a man nearly everyone called Mr. Bob. Bob Manus, 79, was an unmistakable presence on the corner of Clark and Yeary in Plano, Texas. There was his black whistle, hanging around his neck on a lanyard — sharp, shrill and authoritative. A neon vest that he wore as part of his safety uniform. And his careful way with the children he guided across the street each morning and afternoon. “He knew the families. He knew their dogs,” said Ann Lin, who lives nearby and walks her children to school. After Manus died of the coronavirus in January, the block changed, she said. “There’s a noticeable difference now. It’s this heaviness. And it’s a reminder of what COVID took.” A group of parents has planned an honorary plaque to be erected at the spot where Manus worked. “My kids were devastated,” said Sarah Kissel, the PTA president. “They went from seeing him every day to him never coming back.” Manus has not yet been replaced. For now, his corner sits empty. ‘There’s Always This Hope’ Ignacio Silverio and his sister, Leticia Silverio, used to have a ritual. They would meet and chat over coffee in her restaurant, Cheliz, which she opened in their hometown, Redlands, California, four years ago. Ignacio Silverio still comes by the restaurant. But now his sister is gone, after dying from the coronavirus in August at the age of 40. Her husband has kept the restaurant operating, a main source of income. Other family members have pitched in to help. “When I go inside, it’s a surreal moment, and there’s always this hope,” Ignacio Silverio said. “You know, maybe it’s all a dream, and she would greet me, and we would sit down together and drink coffee.” Some families have moved away from the places that are so painfully entwined with memories. In April, Karlee Greer picked up her father, Michael Horton, 66, from the hospital where he had been battling the coronavirus. The doctors said he was ready to continue his recovery at home, and Greer had him stay with her family, setting him up in a bed in her daughter’s room. Four days later, he died there, without warning. Even now, 10 months after her father’s death, Greer remains haunted by the space. “Every time I walk into my daughter’s room, it’s like I see him there,” she said. “I see him around the whole house. I can’t stand to be there.” On Friday, the family moved out, hoping that a new home would bring new memories. The feeling of loss throughout the United States goes beyond physical spaces. “People are feeling a psychological and spiritual void,” said Paddy Lynch, a funeral director in Michigan who has worked with families who have lost relatives to the coronavirus. Part of that void, he said, comes from the missing rituals, the lack of a communal catharsis after a death. Aldene Sans, 90, once a stay-at-home mother who raised five children in Illinois, died in December while living in a nursing home that was ravaged by the virus. Her funeral service was kept small, an effort to make sure the gathering was safe. “It was sad and so strange,” said her daughter Becky Milstead. “Only nine people were there.” ‘Sad Day in Our History’ As the United States approaches 500,000 deaths from the coronavirus, there are few events in history that adequately compare. The 1918 influenza pandemic is estimated to have killed about 675,000 Americans, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, when the country’s population was one-third of what it is now. But it also happened at a time when influenza vaccines, antibiotics, mechanical ventilation and other medical tools did not exist yet. Drew Gilpin Faust, a historian and former president of Harvard University, said medical and societal achievements in the United States had caused many Americans to believe that “we were ready for anything — that we had conquered nature.” “When there were field hospitals in Central Park, and bodies piled up because there was no capacity to bury them, we were just so shocked at ourselves and had not thought this would ever happen to us,” said Faust, whose book “This Republic of Suffering” explores how Americans grappled with death after the Civil War. “That sense of mastery over nature has been so seriously challenged by this pandemic.” Deaths from COVID-19 in the United States came faster as the pandemic went on. The first known death occurred in February 2020, and by May 27, 100,000 people had died. It took four months for the nation to log another 100,000 deaths; the next, about three months; the next, just five weeks. Although daily deaths are now slowing, about 1,900 deaths in America are being reported each day. As of late Saturday night, the toll had reached 497,403. “This will be a sad day in our history,” said Dr. Ali Mokdad, a public health researcher at the University of Washington. “Our grandchildren and future generations will look back at us and blame us for the biggest failure in facing a pandemic, in the country that’s the richest country in the world. That we allowed people to die, that we didn’t protect our vulnerable populations — Native American, Hispanic and African Americans. That we did not protect our essential workers.” It will still take months to vaccinate the American public, and new, more contagious variants of the virus could quickly undo the nation’s progress and lead to another spike. The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, an independent global health research center at the University of Washington, has projected that the nation could reach more than 614,000 deaths by June 1. Factors like how well people adhere to guidelines like mask-wearing and social distancing, plus the speed of vaccinations, could affect that estimate. Mark Buchanan, manager at the Side Door Saloon in Petoskey, Michigan, has been thinking of the stool where his friend Larry Cummings, a professor, used to sit on Monday nights for a chat, some football and a glass of ice water. “It was like 9:10 every Monday,” Buchanan said. “We knew that when the door opened, it was Larry walking in.” Cummings’ widow, Shannon, said she had tried to take comfort in knowing that her husband, who died of COVID-19 in March at the age of 76, had a full, meaningful life, rich with family, friends and travel. But ever since he died, she has been sleeping on his side of the bed. “By doing so, this space isn’t empty,” she said. She recently cleaned out her husband’s university office and sifted through everything he had tucked away there: a collection of political buttons, handwritten cards from their daughters and a file of papers from an extended trip they were supposed to take to the Balkans last summer. This month, she finally sold his car, a Volvo sedan, that had been sitting unused for much of the past year. “I didn’t realize how hard it would be to sell it,” she said. “It hit me in a way that surprised me and shocked me. It was admitting that he’s really not here.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times. © 2021 The New York Times Company', 'num_of_covid': 2}
{'_id': 'b2c4c83f3ba05e18bb9ecf7a716c7219', 'title': "'It's a matter of life and death': FIFA medical chief urges NO football until SEPTEMBER in 'worst situation since World War II' — RT Sport News", 'description': 'Michel D\'Hooghe has told fans and governing bodies to forget restarting competitive football before a vaccine for Covid-19 is found, warning that the "most dramatic situation" since the last world war is "not a matter of money."', 'num_of_covid': 2}
{'_id': 'f1056331e951dd88beb45f3795448329', 'title': "Opinion | The Coronavirus Vaccine Won't Solve Everything  - The New York Times", 'description': 'More Americans have died from Covid-19 than perished in four years of combat in World War II.', 'num_of_covid': 3}
{'_id': '9815d834264b0077e5a60223c395dd67', 'title': "US vaccine tsar Slaoui: 'Pandemic won't be under control unless 80% of humanity is vaccinated' - The Interview", 'description': 'The Covid-19 pandemic triggered in the US the worst crisis since World War II, according to the OECD. Our guest is one of the people who gave America and the world hope to turn the page on Covid-19:…', 'num_of_covid': 4}
{'_id': 'a49859e0e5d76566bd8e264005498066', 'title': "Trump sets goal of coronavirus vaccine by year's end, but 'vaccine or no vaccine, we're back'", 'description': 'Trump said the project would be “big” and “fast,” comparing it to the Manhattan Project, which led to the development of the atomic bomb during World War II.', 'num_of_covid': 2}
{'_id': '58620cc223a4dd998444475be00a0eb7', 'title': "Fact-Checking Biden's Speech: Exaggerations", 'description': 'President Joe Biden, in a prime-time address Thursday night, exaggerated elements of the coronavirus pandemic along with his, and his predecessor’s, response to it. Here’s a fact-check. WHAT BIDEN SAID: “A year ago we were hit with a virus that was met with silence and spread unchecked, denials for days, weeks, then months.” This is exaggerated. It is true that President Donald Trump downplayed the severity of the coronavirus pandemic for months. But he was not exactly silent and did not fail to respond completely. One year ago, on March 12, 2020, Trump delivered an address from the Oval Office acknowledging the threat and announced new travel restrictions on much of Europe. Sign up for The Morning newsletter from the New York Times WHAT BIDEN SAID: “As of now, total deaths in America, 527,726. That’s more deaths than in World War I, World War II, the Vietnam War and 9/11 combined.” This is exaggerated. According to estimates from the Department of Veterans Affairs, a total of 392,393 died in combat in those three wars. Combined with the 2,977 people who died in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, that figure would be indeed smaller than the coronavirus death toll Biden cited. It would also be lower than the 529,000 death figure tracked by The New York Times. But factoring in deaths that occurred in service but outside of combat, the toll from the three wars (more than 610,000) would be higher than the current total number of virus-related deaths Biden cited. WHAT BIDEN SAID: “Two months ago this country didn’t have nearly enough vaccine supply to vaccinate all or anywhere near all of the American public. But soon we will.” This is misleading. By the end of last year, the Trump administration had ordered at least 800 million vaccine doses that were expected for delivery by July 31, 2021, the Government Accountability Office reported. That included vaccines undergoing clinical trials as well as those not yet approved by the Food and Drug Administration. According to Kaiser Health News, that would have been enough to vaccinate 200 million people with authorized vaccines, and more than enough for 400 million once all the vaccines were cleared for use. The current U.S. population is roughly 330 million. And, contrary to Biden’s suggestions, both administrations deserve credit for the current state of the vaccine supply. WHAT BIDEN SAID: “When I took office 50 days ago, only 8% of Americans after months, only 8% of those over the age of 65 had gotten their first vaccination. Today, that number is 65%.” This is misleading. When Biden took office on Jan. 20, the vaccination effort had just begun, after the FDA authorized Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use in mid-December. Moreover, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that people between ages 65 and 74 receive the vaccine only after it has been administered to health care workers, residents of long-term care facilities, frontline essential workers and people over 75. It’s also worth noting that about 62.4% of people over 65 have received one vaccine dose, but just 32.2% are fully vaccinated, according to the CDC. This article originally appeared in The New York Times. © 2021 The New York Times Company', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': 'a354243e1939de3502ac30e0ffc95cd4', 'title': 'Slovakia Holocaust survivors get COVID-19 vaccine on Remembrance Day', 'description': 'Nearly 60 survivors received their COVID-19 vaccination on Holocaust Remembrance Day in Bratislava on Wednesday, completing the inoculation of the city\'s entire survivor community.  The vaccination was held at the city\'s Jewish Community Centre as Slovakia began inoculating people over 75 - an age group that includes those born before the end of World War II.  "Symbolically on this day, Holocaust survivors received as a reward something that I believe they were not expecting a week ago," said Tomas Stern, head of Bratislava\'s Jewish community.', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '8c3e8dc79a7a666d35e78a3f1d11f5d4', 'title': 'VIDEO : Racing for a cure: where are we with COVID-19 vaccines and treatments? | Euronews', 'description': 'VIDEO : With over a million people already infected and 50,000 fatalities, the race is on to find a cure for COVID-19, the virus which has arguably caused the most serious global crisis since World War II.', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '787e2873e8d5313278bdc39bf67f152f', 'title': "Distributing Pfizer and other COVID vaccines 'the largest logistics effort in the world since World War II' - ABC News", 'description': 'After the elation of the first approval of a COVID-19 vaccine comes the realisation that making and testing the vaccine is only the beginning. The next job is figuring out how to distribute hundreds of millions of doses across the world.', 'num_of_covid': 6}
{'_id': '20d8bfb2d9c413b24a357d846244ae7a', 'title': "Jane Malysiak becomes Australia's first recipient of the coronavirus vaccination - ABC News", 'description': 'Jane Malysiak, an 84-year-old World War II survivor, becomes the first person in Australia to be vaccinated against COVID-19, saying she is excited but "didn\'t expect such a lot of people" to turn up to the event.', 'num_of_covid': 5}
{'_id': '01c31998b09e509a81e83a1650ccd3c9', 'title': 'Op-Ed: What should the U.S. do with its surplus vaccines?  - Los Angeles Times', 'description': 'How should the U.S. handle a COVID vaccine surplus? Give it away, like the country did during World War II, and reap economic and diplomatic benefits.', 'num_of_covid': 2}
{'_id': '42a70a46eae51615de5cf401c1a8f7b8', 'title': 'Coronavirus vaccine: UN Summit pleas affordable available for rich poor', 'description': 'If the United Nations was created from the ashes of World War II, what will be born from the global crisis ...', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '99ad8061360a3cda0f6c480c9845c678', 'title': 'Over 300 Holocaust survivors get COVID vaccine in Brooklyn', 'description': 'More than 300 Holocaust survivors and World War II veterans got the coveted COVID-19 vaccine Thursday at a pop-up immunization site in Brooklyn, officials said.The site at the Edith and Carl Marks', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '6546cd771b9ad6374bccc075fe5cf9ad', 'title': 'Arizona World War II veteran among first in state to get Covid vaccine', 'description': 'Dr. Anthony Fauci predicts that the U.S. could achieve herd immunity by "the end of the second quarter 2021."', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '6cf307db5784b37683c9eb5a69d78e03', 'title': 'The Lessons of One of the Worst Years in American Life', 'description': 'WASHINGTON — The 365 days between the United States’ panicked retreat from offices and schools and President Joe Biden’s speech on Thursday night, celebrating the prospect of a pandemic’s end, may prove to be one of the most consequential years in American history. People learned about national vulnerabilities most had never considered, and about depths of resilience they never imagined needing except in wartime. Even the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, for all their horror and the two decades of war they ushered in, did not change day-to-day life in every city and town in the United States quite the way the coronavirus did. Sign up for The Morning newsletter from the New York Times One president lost his job in large part for mishandling a crisis whose magnitude he first denied. His successor knows his legacy depends on bringing the catastrophe to a swift conclusion. The halting response demonstrated both the worst of American governance and then, from Operation Warp Speed’s 10-month sprint to vaccines to the frantic pace of inoculations in recent days, the very best. The economic earthquake as cities and towns shuttered so altered politics that Congress did something that would have been unimaginable a year ago this week. Lawmakers spent $5 trillion to dig the nation out of the economic hole created by the virus, and almost as a political aftershock, enacted an expansion of the social safety net larger than any seen since the creation of Medicare nearly 60 years ago. No country can go through this kind of trauma without being forever changed. There were indelible moments. In the spring came the racial reckoning brought on by the death of George Floyd after a police officer in Minneapolis knelt on his neck for more than eight minutes. On Jan. 6 came the mob attack on the Capitol that led many to wonder whether American democracy was still capable of self-correction. But Biden’s message on Thursday centered on the theme that the country did finally come together in a common cause — vaccines as the road to normalcy — and from that could spring a glimmer of unity, as a still divided nation seeks solace in millions of tiny jabs in the arm. In his speech, Biden held out two distinct dates of hope: May 1, when all adults in the United States will be eligible to receive a vaccine, and July 4, when modest Independence Day celebrations might resemble life a little like it once was. Jill Lepore, a Harvard historian whose book “These Truths” tracks the changing dynamics of technology and society in America since its discovery, wondered if Americans were unconsciously considering the new year as starting in late March, as it did in Britain and its colonies until the calendar changed in 1752. “Or maybe it begins the day you get your vaccine,” she said. “Or the day enough of us get a vaccine.” For Biden, the question is when he will be able to pivot from what he has called the “rescue” phase of the pandemic to the “recovery” phase after the pandemic. In his speech on Thursday, the president made it clear that the rescue was still underway. His goal, his chief of staff, Ron Klain, said in an interview, is “laying up the next steps in this rescue and what, now that we’ve got this bill passed, are we really going to do in the coming months to get back toward a more normal way of life in this country.” All of Biden’s instincts tell him that declaring a move to recovery too soon carries dangers. It would signal that states could follow the example of Texas, eliminating mask mandates, opening restaurants and bars too quickly, and making themselves vulnerable to a resurgence — what Biden called “Neanderthal thinking.” He said as much in the speech, arguing, “This is not the time to let up.” “We need everyone to get vaccinated,” he said, an unspoken recognition that soon there may be more supply than willing takers. “Keep wearing a mask,” because “beating this virus and getting back to normal depends on national unity.” Though Biden made no mention of it, his top Cabinet members have emphasized that even eliminating the virus at home is not enough. As his secretary of state, Antony Blinken, said last month, “Unless and until everyone in the world is vaccinated, then no one is really fully safe, because if the virus is out there and continuing to proliferate, it’s also going to be mutating.” “And if it’s mutating,” he added, “it’s also going to come back and bite people everywhere.” But the subtext of Biden’s message on Thursday evening, was that for the first time, people can begin to imagine a post-COVID world. After a year behind closed doors, the government can start to think about managing the virus to the point where it does not drive every policy decision, and families can find a way to go to dinner, or visit grandparents, without wondering whether it is a life-or-death decision. All of which raises the question of what will be permanently changed and what, when the history of this national trauma is written, will prove recoverable. And what will the country have learned? The past provides a mixed guide. There were too few lessons gleaned from the 1918 pandemic, an event that most history books overlooked, and that many Americans first heard about in any detail a century later, when it returned to afflict the nation in a different form. But in 1918, as in 2020, the president’s instinct was to play down its severity, invoking the odd logic that Americans would be dispirited by the truth even as their family and friends succumbed around them. President Donald Trump has never been a student of history (although his grandfather Frederick Trump died of the flu in 1918), and he told journalist Bob Woodward that “I wanted to always play it down. I still like playing it down,” because “I don’t want to create a panic.” No one will know how many thousands of lives that cost as Trump ridiculed mask-wearing and did so little to promote the vaccine in the last days of his administration when it moved from laboratory to market in record time. “Denials for days, weeks, then months,” Biden said Thursday night, without ever mentioning his predecessor by name. “That led to more deaths, more infections, more stress and more loneliness." Dr. Anthony Fauci, whom Biden deliberately made his top medical adviser, also referred to those unnecessary deaths on Thursday when he said on NBC that a year ago this week, “it would have shocked me completely” to know that more than half a million Americans would die of the disease. But he noted that the country paid a horrific price for its political divisions. “Even simple common-sense health measures took on a political connotation,” he said. “It wasn’t a pure public health approach. It was very much influenced by the divisiveness we have in this country.” When Trump and his wife received the vaccine in January, they did not make it public. It was left to Biden and members of his administration to be inoculated on live television as an encouragement to those Americans fearful of the vaccine. The second big lesson may be that when properly organized, the same government that mobilized for World War II and landed men on the moon can in fact save lives on a mass scale. To the Biden administration, that meant taking the vaccines developed in record time and devising a vital distribution system. Operation Warp Speed “was very important work, and I don’t mean to minimize it,” Klain said. “But there was no plan for how we were going to get this vaccine into the arms of tens, and ultimately hundreds, of millions of Americans.” When the history of this strange moment is written, Biden will almost certainly be credited for getting a quarter of the adult population vaccinated with at least one shot, and 10% fully vaccinated, in his first 50 days. After years in which government was denigrated as more of an impediment to national greatness than a vehicle of progress, when conspiracy theories about a pernicious “deep state” still abound, he made the case on Thursday night that a simple show of government competence was itself a turning point. “What we don’t know is whether that translates into encouraging people into public service, or at least trusting that the government can get something done right,” said Richard Haass, a longtime diplomat and now the president of the Council on Foreign Relations. “After 9/11, we rose to the task of fighting global terrorism. After COVID-19, we rose to a different task.” “It remains to be seen,” he said, “whether we can now also use the moment to lessen the effects of domestic division.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times. © 2021 The New York Times Company', 'num_of_covid': 2}
{'_id': '35d2581a21736df1dfb07a3df82afdb9', 'title': 'Prime Minister Scott Morrison receives Pfizer jab | SBS News', 'description': 'An 84-year-old World War II survivor has become the first person to receive a coronavirus vaccine in Australia after a small group of aged care residents,...', 'num_of_covid': 6}
{'_id': '7b3eaf6b79635e442a0175166c85199c', 'title': "WWII POW gets Birmingham's first COVID-19 vaccine | Fox News", 'description': 'A 94-year-old World War II veteran and prisoner of war rolled up his sleeves on Tuesday and became the first person in Birmingham, Ala., to receive the COVID-19 vaccine.', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '876afaeb9d1af7808d579d90fb1c2c93', 'title': 'Bedford World War II veteran is first VA patient to receive COVID-19 vaccine - The Boston Globe', 'description': 'The VA Bedford Healthcare system announced the milestone over social media, posting that Margaret Klessens, a resident of the Community Living Center in the Edith Nourse Rogers Memorial Veterans Hospital received the shot at 12:07 p.m.', 'num_of_covid': 2}
{'_id': '1e00965c37bf06d0af91995b764c6197', 'title': 'World War II vet asks Pfizer for Canadians to receive vaccine | Toronto Sun', 'description': 'Pte. Fred Arsenault received 90,000 birthday cards for his 100th birthday last year.', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '8725a5622be63f9a2c37f7926ac500d1', 'title': 'Virus collides with politics as German election year starts - ABC News', 'description': 'The coronavirus pandemic is colliding with politics as Germany embarks on its vaccination drive and one of the most unpredictable election years in the country’s post-World War II history', 'num_of_covid': 2}
{'_id': '13f72f600e50956a47fe7ad27b29cc44', 'title': 'Japanâ€™s rush for coronavirus vaccines before Olympics runs into a skeptical public - The Washington Post', 'description': 'A deep skepticism about vaccine safety runs through Japan, fed by memories of forced vaccinations by U.S. forces after World War II.', 'num_of_covid': 2}
{'_id': 'c6f72365c0a1770fd34ad5e5d8bb31c2', 'title': 'Why didn’t Captain Sir Tom Moore have the Covid vaccine and when was he admitted to hospital? – The Sun', 'description': 'CAPTAIN Tom Moore, the heroic 100-year-old World War II veteran who raised £33million for the NHS, has died after battling Covid-19 in hospital. Moore, who rose to the rank of captain while serving…', 'num_of_covid': 3}
{'_id': '85f06d977379969aee72288351eebca1', 'title': 'EU avoided chaos, explored new paths in turbulent 2020 year', 'description': "Between the specter of Brexit, the coronavirus pandemic and a new leadership team facing a budget battle, the European Union looked set to remember 2020 as an “annus horribilis.”  Instead, a last-minute trade deal with the United Kingdom coupled with the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in the final days of the year produced a sense of success for the 27-nation bloc and brought glimmers of hope to the EU's 450 million residents.  After months of chaotic negotiations, the EU also will head into 2021 with both a long-term budget and a coronavirus recovery fund worth 1.83 trillion euros ($2.3 trillion) that could help the EU's member nations bounce back from Europe's most brutal economic crisis since World War II.", 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '72ff52ea278af9f39d61830fc6162b39', 'title': "'Are people to be left to die?' Vaccine pleas fill UN summit", 'description': 'JOHANNESBURG (AP) — If the United Nations was created from the ashes of World War II, what will be born from the global crisis of COVID-19?  Many world leaders at this week’s virtual U.N....', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '995d58544c79ce33d6ccc19d8d19a960', 'title': "Covid 'D-Day': ICU nurse in New York among first in country to receive vaccination", 'description': '"D-Day was a pivotal turning point in World War II. It was the beginning of the end — and that\'s where we are today," Gen. Gustave Perna said.', 'num_of_covid': 5}
{'_id': '9a71247d9ff4a45870194d18a0c33603', 'title': "Black California surgeon 'walks the walk' on virus vaccine", 'description': 'Dr. David Tom Cooke says his choice to participate in a clinical trial for a coronavirus vaccine is like his grandmother’s decision to leave the Jim Crow South to work in California’s naval shipyards during World War II. She was determined to contribute even though the country didn\'t recognize her as worthy of full rights.  Today, it\'s Cooke\'s sense of duty and experience as a Black man that led him to test out Pfizer\'s vaccine in August and make it his mission to allay concerns about its safety among Black friends, family and community members.  “When you look at the scourge of the COVID-19 pandemic, communities of color are disproportionately affected in regards to death," said Cooke, head of general thoracic surgery at UC Davis Health, the Sacramento area\'s major trauma center.', 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': '6b2bbc27525a225ec3f64b2ec3afa354', 'title': 'Virus collides with politics as German election year starts', 'description': "BERLIN (AP) — The coronavirus pandemic is colliding with politics as Germany embarks on its vaccination drive and one of the most unpredictable election years in the country's post-World War II...", 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': 'e0a2a7a5f4164c49affce7e73312ecd9', 'title': 'World War II veteran, 96, receives second COVID vaccine dose | On Air Videos | Fox News', 'description': "Margaret Klessens tells 'The Story' inoculation has caused her 'no repercussions at all'", 'num_of_covid': 1}
{'_id': 'c8bb7b756e5439c6644deaf910d741aa', 'title': 'Florida governor walks back claim over 1 millionth shot', 'description': 'TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis had a made-for-TV moment: A 100-year-old World War II veteran getting a vaccine against the coronavirus. “An American hero,” the governor...', 'num_of_covid': 2}
{'_id': 'f859512542a0fbe04ddb50e7ad170b6d', 'title': 'Penicillin: How a miracle drug changed the fight against infection during World War II - The Washington Post', 'description': 'The race to find a vaccine for the coronavirus echoes the quest to mass produce penicillin in the United States and Britain during World War II', 'num_of_covid': 3}
